if I go on the Slayer dating app very
difficult in quarantine rising Li enough
consider dating an anime character they
they can't contract
no I think I got it I got it I figured
that out take four I'm gonna get really
good at describing this okay you're
gonna get awesome at describing it I
think I had my be right back screen on
oh okay cool
so a waifu is a fictional character that
you have a romantic love for that is
indistinguishable from a romantic love
that you might feel for another human
being it's important to note that this
is a anime character and not a cartoon
character the difference being that the
style is a lot more focused into being
either cute or cool and also anime tends
to have a lot more plot wear which means
that you can have a lot more character
development a lot more thorough
character writing whereas in a cartoon
such as Simpsons has a circular
narrative they always end up back on the
couch characters don't really change
much why is that important because you
connect so much more with the character
when you see them grow and you see them
change as a person and you see them go
through like hardships that stick with
them hmm interesting
okay so in that sort of Mirrors so what
I'm hearing you say is that sir plot
development and character and personal
growth or character growth in an anime
kind of mirrors real life in a sense
more because romantic interests with
human beings also involve sort of growth
and change uh yeah I wouldn't know two
months other I would think so that
sounds alright okay so I mean can you
have a waifu who is not from anime of
probably you'll probably get called
weird even more so than having a normal
waifu imagine that's probably the case
with some people what what would be
weird about that it's just not even so
weird as in the act itself is stranger
it's just less common and therefore more
noteworthy I see okay
beautifully put and so you so if I
understand you correctly
the core of a relationship with a waifu
is a feeling of love so it's entirely
like an internal feeling of romantic
love yes so there's a whole lot of
different people with a whole lot of
different thoughts and a lot of them do
consider themselves in relationships I
do not I think by definition their
relationship requires two consenting
parties so I don't consider myself in a
relationship but I do still have that
feeling of indistinguishable love okay
so you have a feeling of love and so
then let me ask you a question
how is that different from okay so I see
what you're saying so so and so there's
a difference between being in love with
a waifu and having a relationship yes
and so can you help us understand the
people who have relationships with
waifu's do you have any sense of over
how they understand it I I do because
many many years ago before is really
insanity because the topic interested me
regardless I made myself like almost
like a mini documentary where I
interviewed people who consider
themselves in relationships funny how
that turns out doesn't it haha who comes
back around but um yeah so like there's
this one guy who like had like a wedding
ring there's this like people who like
go on like dates
the contents of which I'm not really
sure there's someone who I talked to who
was a pastor to married people to
fictional characters hmm fascinating
yeah it's pretty weird but you know
because it was well the pastor
specifically when I talked to him it
always stuck out the weirdest thing
because we have a really in-depth
conversation about how these people
think and they it was almost like a
multiverse theory style of like logic
where they thought well I believe in a
multiverse where as in some universe
they do exist
therefore if I just keep in mind that
distance of universe then I can tell
myself it's real but isn't the whole
point of the multiverse that that's real
in that universe but not in this one I
don't know I am Not sure okay makes
sense
I mean anyway so so it sounds like you
don't feel like you're in a relationship
not and so what what is your what is
your relationship and sorry for using I
mean I just it's okay it's it's by that
you mean like parasocial relationship is
what you mean yeah no so I mean like
what it what is the way in which you
relate to your waifu uh Thor okay would
you be okay with trying to phrase that
in a different way a montage or health
sure so so like like when we think about
relationships so for example I can have
a relationship to my plants in the
backyard even though it's not like a
relationship in terms of a consenting
thing between two individuals yeah yeah
we relate so human beings there's a
theory of psychology called object
relations which is the way in which
human beings relate to other things so I
for example have if I was bitten by a
snake I will have a phobia of snakes so
I relate to snakes in a different way
from the way that most people may relate
to snakes so what I'm curious about is
what is the nature of your interaction
maybe that's a better way to put it okay
with your wife so one thing that's big
for a lot of people which is saying for
me it's the idea of like character
merchandise so if the character is sorry
if the character is on something that
you could buy that is an immediate you
feel like you have a connection to that
person almost like wearing like a like a
t-shirt of a band you like you have feel
like you have a stronger connection to
that thing by wrapping that thing shown
like against like to the point where
it's like she has like a certain style
of guitar
which I have gone and bought sort of
like a not the exact guitar itself but
the air the the style of guitar I own my
watch face is a picture of Alamo came up
but I watch face like it's trying to
find ways to rep or otherwise embody the
spirit of the character in everyday life
I think and and and what do you feel as
you embody your wife er uh I was ill how
does it feel to you to get that guitar
it it just it feels like it's like the
the feeling in your heart that you get
when you just have like a nice hug it's
just like just that satisfaction that's
the sort of feeling that like for
example I felt when I first opened up
the guitar case when I got home hmm
so you felt felt enveloped that's the I
think that's a good word yeah yeah and
enveloped by some kind of positive
feeling yeah what do you think you were
enveloped by that's a very good question
I couldn't tell hmm because when I think
about enveloping you know I think about
an agent outside of you doing something
to you mmm right and and maybe it's
maybe the agent that's creating the
sensation of enveloping is the guitar
but you know like envelop is a verb that
usually has a subject like yeah I
enveloped someone in a hug and and so
can you tell us a little bit about how
you like where did you how did you start
the process of getting a wife ooh yeah
so it started technically it started
many many years ago when I watched the
series for the first time
I watched about half of it thought and
life stops is it okay if I ask you
specifics yes
so we're Tigers the series is K on so
that's spelt K - Oh N
okay and character is Yui okay so I
watched the series I'd like a bit of
series many many years ago and I was
like yeah alright then I moved on but
then throughout let's say I don't know
how this relates to high school but how
I might watch this series I must have
been around 15 or 16 my very first
watched it but then from the right age
of around 16 into my first and second
years of university I I slowly slept
lips slept I slowly went into a pre
nasty day of depression and anxiety mmm
I didn't really realize and it was so it
was kind of too late I went through the
cognitive behavioral therapy I'm feeling
a lot better nowadays which is nice good
Freeman and thank you and so the the way
that I really got connected was back in
the first year of University when things
were proper bad ie
I watched the show again and it really
really really connected with me I have
so so i i i do see a lot of myself in in
eure in the character would about
yourself in her she is very affectionate
person with a lot of love to give to her
friends and especially at a time when
you're depressed on top of the fact that
we're kind of in a society where it's
it's weird and frowned upon as a dude's
to show affection and not to your
friends it can be very difficult to show
that and so it was like
looking at someone who was me but
someone who wasn't tied down by anything
and that's something that I'm really
connected with I'm not along with like
the series itself the overarching themes
of the second to see the second season
they they relate to me a lot in like
being left behind and staying friends
through distance things like that which
I I could I have the foresight to know
are things I'm going to deal with in the
future so I've sort of made that almost
like a rock for me to cling on to where
it's like I I know this is how I'm going
to feel so it's almost like I can how do
you feel about yourself Joey it's a it's
a question that I would answer very
differently if you asked me a year ago
at the moment at the moment I have the
highest self esteem I've ever had I
think on just like a visual level I
think I look pretty average on a bad day
on a good day I think I look pretty good
in terms of like personality I think if
people give me a chance they tend to
like me there's a nice feeling yeah do
you love yourself yes which isn't weird
to say but I think I do
yeah when when did you start to do that
I started to do that when I stopped
caring about what other people would
think of me and I did things because I
loved them and I knew it would make me
happy
who taught you how to do that me really
yeah it wasn't Yui oh [ __ ] okay yeah
better pick
I'm allowed to survey right I can't
remember I'm not there as a general rule
but call me off-guard that's what we do
here it smells like it what do you think
that's a wonderful realization that
really it feels good I don't know why it
feels good what feels good about it
when you hold a character in a regard
where they're sort of like an aspiration
and a motive it's a perfect version of
you yeah it's it's good to feel like
you're closer to where you want to be
when you hold a character in aspiration
how does that make you closer to where
you want to be I mean doesn't like so
let's say that I want to be mm-hmm let
me just think about what's a good
example so let's say people have been
people make a lot of comparisons between
me and Jordan Peterson
so let's say that I hold my I aspire to
be Jordan Peterson yeah but just because
I aspire to be something how I don't
necessarily see that that makes me
closer right like I can I can have zero
dollars in my pocket and aspire to be a
millionaire but aspiring to be a
millionaire I think I learned in my
pocket I think why men was it feels good
when you when you aspire to be someone
and you suddenly realize that you have
already taken steps to do so and you
like inspired by them and you didn't
even realize it
so they inspire you without you
realizing it yes
is that what he does for you yes I think
so
I mean I think like this is very new to
me but seems like so can you tell us
when you started so let's dig into that
a little bit can you tell us about it so
you were depressed and anxious in
university during your first
one or two years and when did your
relationship with you we start so I it
must have been Wolf's I was still in the
real thick of depression like when it
was at its height trim because because K
on is about a band mm-hmm which that
they have music which you can download
and you can listen to and it's one of
these series where it technically it has
a plot
it's called slice of life where it
technically has a plot but really it's a
group of characters pissing about for
god knows how many episodes just being
happy and so it was it was like a
constant source of positivity where if I
felt like garbage
I could watch K on if I was out on the
walk and I felt terrible I could listen
to the music
and I think through that I started to
really appreciate K on and the
characters and then obviously that grew
how confused obviously what's I so far I
mean so I like anime and I found so I
watched an anime called Hikaru no go and
I watched it when I was like trying to
get my life together and I found
something very something about the anime
about like trying to be a better version
of what you are and not letting
obstacles stand in your way was like
resonated deeply with me and I also
really enjoyed the music and I I've
watched it four or five times over the
last maybe 10 or 15 years and usually
when I watch it I find it to be
inspiring right and what I'm curious
about is you say obviously then that
grew and what I'm you know I never found
myself in a waifu relationship with one
of the characters there well so I can
completely real like I get what you mean
about anime or other forms of
Media or stories being sources of
inspiration and almost like lifeblood
when things are hard yeah it's it's for
what I'm curious about is how does that
feeling of inspiration or connectedness
or I guess connectedness maybe is one of
the steps but like resonating with like
the story that someone is telling how
does that turn into romantic love and an
embodiment of those things okay that's
on the same page now so I think so I
okay
thanks for seconds so I think it's very
when you'd like obviously when you first
watch a series it's all very like
surface level up here you just you think
about it and you appreciate it with your
mind I think when you take into account
the fact that I did feel so far gone
from normal society and as like as just
like a dude in university I like I I did
have expectations of myself to like be
talking to girls and being in a
relationship and all this kind of thing
and at that point I didn't even I hadn't
felt romantic love for another person
before so I so when you're someone like
me who really really likes to affection
and love and you feel like you can't get
that from the people around you and then
also you're online and you're on Twitter
and you then you see on I'm going right
at the readout as an example and you see
people who feel like they have this
romantic connection to a character
I think that something about the
knowledge that that's the thing that can
happen almost as the own source of the
growth of that feeling that makes it so
so you you realized that it's possible
to romantically love yeah I realized it
was possible yeah and then I think
through desperation and being hung grove
yeah that's a good blood that's a very
good one
what were you hungry for
I love with all of my heart
cutesy romance yep like like I'm that's
what you love but what what do you hunk
what were you hungry for what were you
guys I find it hard to believe I just
have it I have a difficulty envisioning
someone who is desperate for cutesy
stuff IIIi don't like to be us it feels
deeper to me than that yeah it's like
that is a level of it but additionally
it's it's just a like a like a personal
emotional connection with another person
but but that's not what there isn't
another but so you were hungry for a
connection with another person yeah you
were lonely yeah yeah absolutely
do you feel lonely now uh yeah that's I
thought it comes in waves it comes and
goes do help us understand that a little
bit um okay well in what way who feels
very relatable I'm confused I mean if
you're if you have a wife Lou how are
you lonely because it's like as much as
I can believe something up here oh my
god I unplugged my own headphones that's
not a good start sorry as much as I can
believe something up here at the end of
the day I'm laying in my bed and I I
don't like this no there's no one in a
mile area willing to touch me exactly
you I mean like
there is no affection that anyone is
willing to show me can you speak real
quick I think yeah okay so I can eat
yeah sorry but you say that that as much
as you're in love over here but I
thought that that you started by saying
that this is a feeling right doesn't
doesn't you exist here where you yes yes
what would like in day-to-day life well
I feel about there like feeling those
feelings it does come from here but it's
a very different experience I think when
it's it's 4:00 a.m. and you're laying in
bed and you feel cold and you feel about
how long showing you affection for over
a year and it's all very much in here
and what's in here like the emotions
have been brought from here into here
and they're being inspected almost and
what do you notice when you inspect them
how long
it feels very hollow it feels like
there's no direction feels like there's
no endgame it's just what it is and if
it grows any more than it'll just be
creating problems so I'm confused do you
do you think I mean we haven't really
talked to judgmentally but I'm gonna ask
sort of a judgemental statement do you
think you is a is a good or a bad thing
in your life and why do you have to be
either but I've yeah I've thought about
this i i i think it isn't either because
i think in in terms of being there for
me when I needed that source of
inspiration and motivation it's been
like a invaluable resource mm-hmm making
me as better as a person where I am
today but at the same time moving
forwards it it seems like a bad thing
why is it a bad thing
because I I feel like if I go on let's
say a dating app very difficult in
quarantine prising ly enough I'm super
dating an anime character they they
can't contract so when you go like a day
yeah well the questions I've lost
dragging me what's bad about your yeah
loose end going forward it it seems like
you know woods if if you if if you meet
someone and they think oh this IB
person's pretty cool and then I I
develop feelings for that person
suddenly my heart is pulled in two ways
well it's possible to develop feelings
for another person I have once before
after you were with you II yeah before
after can you tell us about that
yeah so it was fairly short-lived
because I was um it was the only time a
dating app has ever even come close to
working for me it was over a year ago so
it was sort of like start of 2019 and I
was talking to a American girl who was
like an exchange student and we we we
went on like a few date and I when we
talked a lot and we had to break it off
reasonably early because she was going
to go back to America and neither of us
wanted father again funnily enough
neither of us wanted a long-distance
relationship
so it was just like doing this I mean I
did people different people have
different ideas of what dating is in the
fact that we went on some dates yes we
were dating I mean did you guys ever
have a conversation about not wanting a
long-distance relationship yeah yeah we
did I think if you have that
conversation that means you're dating
like I could see yeah it's like I'm with
you that people can think about you know
is it dating is it not dating but if you
have a conversation about yeah I don't
think this is gonna work across an ocean
right yeah that means you're dating
that's understandable and and when you
were with this person what helped me
understand what why did you start on the
dating app in the first place because of
those those lonely nights where it's
there are there are more like there are
more hungry feelings beyond just having
a love for a thing like so like again
like doing things what are you what are
those hungry feelings response this once
is a great one you know the the the idea
of telling someone how much they mean to
you and then saying it back is something
which I don't I can't recall in my brain
ever happening you mean with we're you
ear with other with anyone with anyone
and in terms in terms of a romantic
relationship that I don't think ice ever
happens to my knowledge at least do you
feel loved by people non romantically
yeah because I have a fantastic amazing
group of friends who I love with all my
heart and they're amazing I love them
you sound like you're a lover I I am as
much as the thighs he tries to stop me I
am so my brother told me something many
years ago that there are two types of
people in the world they're lovers and
fighters right and so buster lovers and
some of us are fighters yeah so it
sounds like you have mmm
I was gonna say a lot of love to give
but it sounds like you give your love
it's just you know you have a lot of
love to receive yeah but that can seem
accurate can I think for a second
Golf so Toby what were you looking for
and by coming on here today I was
looking for I think the good thing is I
was looking for direction because I I am
here now and I don't I don't know where
I could possibly go from here I don't
know how you can make a feeling like
this go away especially when you've
surrounded yourself and to an extent
some of your identity around this
feeling what is your identity what kind
of identity do you have you built up
around this feeling if if you've I'm
sure there's a good number of people
where if you if you ask them to tell to
tell you three things about me one of
those three things would be that guy
really loves you is that when they say
that how does that make you feel uh a
warm cozy feeling mm-hmm thing what were
you depressed about when you were in uni
it's difficult to say
so Owen though I remember now it was so
I think it was it was very very very
very similar to the Lille pshew
conversation you had about lily one and
Lily to where I had developed a an extra
voice in my head
consistently beating me down and telling
me that I wasn't being productive enough
I wasn't good enough I like if I wanted
to take a break I wouldn't let myself
sore thing I would constantly berate
myself and that cause of like a downward
spiral I'd say have you ever been in
love with a real person
yes the briefly with the American girl
mm-hmm what about before that I was in a
relationship and I realized I wasn't in
love and I thought oh I [ __ ] this and
so when the the way that I think about
it is how the hell I got myself in that
situation was I when I was 17 I was a
very dumb hormonal teenager and when
someone comes along and says hey I like
you and that person plays super smash
brothers melee life a Nintendo GameCube
you kind of just go along with it even
against you you will tell yourself all
these kinds of things because they play
super smash brothers melee and they give
you affection and you like both of those
things so this can only be a good idea
and then you then you're you know your
work and you're you have nothing to do
but think and you're like oh my god I
don't actually really like this person
that much I've made a huge horrible
mistake and that felt pretty garbage but
where I said a mistake uh I felt like my
my long-term judgment was clouded by
short term rewards
I see and do you think he falls under
that category that's a very good
question perhaps yes there was it does
yeah it was a short term is a short term
solution which to what what it to the
the I think to to finding and being able
to come into contact with who I really
am because I wasn't a very loving person
when I was pressed by was aware I was I
wouldn't know if I would say I was
hateful I wasn't I certainly wasn't
loving I very I was not emotional until
I suppressed all emotions and um and it
it certainly helped me realize how
uncomfortable being but as you said the
the long-term doesn't seem very bright
did actually that I died I don't know I
can't really remember I lost right okay
so did you not say that's a connection I
made then yep I saw your face go when I
said that and I was like oh I think I
[ __ ] that up
yes I mean I I asked you about it but I
yeah I say very little figured out Toby
so Toby let me just think for a second
let me think out loud for a second okay
so I find myself actually so my first
thought is that this is not that weird
okay right and this is what I find is
like maybe disappointing and now I'm
wondering whether you know I wonder if
so my first thought is that like we
talked to some quote-unquote weird
people on stream and generally speaking
what I find is that they don't tend to
be as pathetic inflammatory or weird as
we expected yeah like that's been a
running thing like we get a couple of in
cells on who are like
not true like you know fire-breathing
yeah women hating in sells they all tend
out turn out to be like relatively
decent people and then I was so excited
because we were getting a real life ooh
and and I think you are a dude who has a
real wife ooh and the more that I talked
to you the more sense you make like it's
like yeah you know I think that I mean
I'm gonna offer a couple of explanations
about what I think is going on and draw
a couple of connections that I think you
know may offend some people but overall
I mean I think the way that you think
about it is actually like pretty healthy
I think you are in a dark place at a
particular point and this sort of I
don't think you really understand what
your mind did but I don't think you is a
separate person I think you is you and
we can kind of hear that because you
talked about identifying with you you
talk about who you are like it's sort of
like an externalization
of a part of yourself and and we talk
about like you know you had forgotten
how to love and sort of she taught you
how to do that but then like also I
think its core it's not coincidental
that you learn how to love yourself when
through something with Yui and you
started to feel good about yourself
through something with Yui
in the fact that it's like if we think
about we know when I think about
romantic love it's usually not with
someone who's like us so when I think
about successful relationships
generally speaking the people are quite
different and so the the you know in a
weird way I think it's almost like an
imaginary friend like if you think about
a child who has an imaginary friend and
hopefully this is not offensive to you
that I'm calling you eat to certainly
but I'm at the process yeah but but like
you know sometimes the human mind
anthropomorphize azar embodies a
particular set of sensations and
feelings like in an external form and
this is where I'm really about to offend
people but you know I think sometimes
the way that you talk about Yui is
actually the way that I hear people find
religion so like and I'm just sharing an
experience so I'll tell you what I heard
and I'll let other people judge judge
what they think about this but you know
oftentimes people find religion in dark
time
and and there are a lot of things that
that just were like just hearing you
talk or a like triggered memories in my
mind of hearing people talk about
religion so like you know being in a
dark time and like having this sort of
pure in one way kind of relationship
where like they pray to God and they
believe in God and they idealize God and
God never really talks back but not in
the traditional way not in the way that
a normal human being does but there is
some kind of like response right like
there's a sense of enveloping complete
pure and perfect love that you feel and
and that's sometimes when I talk to
people who are religious they kind of
talk about that now I'm not saying that
God is a waifu so please don't interpret
it that way I'm just pointing out
something similar than I've heard and
what I'd like to do is share with you
actually an example about something
called Bush gmod and this guy named
vallabhacharya so a couple like a
thousand years ago in India there was a
monk named Balaam acharya who started
something called bush t-mart so acharya
means teachers so he was teacher of
unloved and ahmad is a path so it's like
a path to enlightenment or a path to God
and he started I don't know how familiar
people are with Hinduism but there are
some icons or Hindu representations of
God that are basically like a child
so there's baby Krishna and like baby
Krishna is like there are different
kinds of Hindu gods and and like you
know so I shared one do to go with like
somebody came on stream earlier this
week but durga is like she's like she
rides a tiger she has eight arms she
wields multiple weapons she's not just
like two hand like she's not like two
weapon fighting she's like eight weapon
fighting she's got a sword and an axe
and a mace and then also like a flower
and other things and so baby krishna is
is like one representation of God and
basically what viola bateria said is
that we should love God the way that we
love a child so like loving a child is
like a complete
one-way relationship because the child
never does [ __ ] for you you change their
diaper you feed them when they're hungry
or cranky in the middle then I wake up
it's actually like a super abusive
relationship it's just all one way right
and they don't give a [ __ ] about your
feelings you know it's just completely
one way and and what he realized is that
a lot of people when they like have
relationships with God it's like it's
like a two-way street it's like I'm
gonna pray to God so that God does this
for me and I'm gonna put in this so that
I get this out of it like it's sort of
like this two-way relationship where you
expect something from God and so he kind
of came up with this idea of like loving
a baby like so you should think about
God as a child which you can you can
give all of your love and evokes a lot
of love but you get nothing in return
and the interesting thing is that when I
read vallabhacharya is like stuff when I
hear you talk about your wife ooh
this is sounds bizarre but it reminds me
of his take on God which is just sort of
this idea that human beings can have a
completely one-way positive relationship
that is never given back yeah I mean any
thoughts about that I'm just kind of I'm
here I have other questions for you and
stuff but yeah so that I sounded weird
but I I see what you mean I I the the
connection does make sense in my mind
what makes sense about the connection
the idea of sort of like something
that's idolize and saying you try to
embody that is completely one way in
that you never really get any actual
feedback with yeah and so then the
question is like do you want do you want
to let go of you II I
it depends what it depends what you mean
by let go I think a bit I I have thought
about what that would feel like
and I I and if it just feels like well I
think about it
it's like if I did that then almost like
a piece of me would be garden like I
wouldn't be able to loved as much as I
do
yeah so I don't think that that's true I
understand that you're afraid of that
but like my big hypothesis is that you
he is you right so like I I think I
don't think that you're gonna stop I
think there's gonna be something impure
about what you replace it with but
that's life you know so like you have
you have the choice between having a
romantic relationship with a perfect
non-existent being or having a romantic
relationship with a flawed but real
being yeah because perfection is
non-existent like those two things come
hand in hand yeah and and I mean I think
you've gotta move faster to be blunt but
I don't think that she's gonna leave you
in the way that you think she will
because I think she's you like I think I
think the the kind of love that you feel
for her I think she's just like an
anthropomorphized embodied version of
your perfect self what do you think I I
think you're right but my mind is
searching for about but I concur it
seems to find one you feel about that
right I
yeah I feel I feel about around here
it's like please please find something
yeah so what what feels wrong about what
I said
[Music]
it's just scary that's all what else
yeah there's two it's something that I
don't want to do because it's scary but
I've done scary things before and all
these scary thing what are you afraid of
uh that's a very good question what am I
afraid of I'm listen to this yeah okay
um I am afraid of being alone good I
think that sounds like the May month
absolutely because let's think about
this for a second right like what did
you eat take away from you where did she
protect you from the loneliness
absolutely so if she goes away hmm right
so I think you've got kind of uh you
know it's not gonna be an easy road and
it's also gonna be a little bit [ __ ]
weird to be blunt right so if you
started dating your girl
and you're like oh we bow with a waifu
like that yeah that can be hard for
people to accept because I don't think
many people take the time to understand
it the way that you explained it drive
it yeah and so when she like walks into
your room and she's like pictures of
this plastered like you know this anime
girl PLAs I have I think I have I have
an entire bookshelf we're like half of
it is filled with like figurines and it
reminds me of a and I think it was like
an old 4chan greentext where someone
said that they were on like Tim's and
they convinced someone to come around
through the house and they walked in saw
a bunch of figurines and then walked out
why do you think that people what what
do you think that person is feeling when
they walk into the room and they see a
bunch of figurines that's a very good
question
uh what would they be they would be what
they this so normalized for me now it's
difficult to try and write I guess they
would they would they would be under the
impression that they think women are
objects some extent right
maybe so let me ask to ask actually
ask a different question why would a
woman hesitate to enter into a
relationship with you let's assume that
she likes you for a moment okay because
of the waifu thing what's what's what
makes the waifu thing arghhh
uh real women with which she would she
thinks I don't have like a proper grasp
on what love is sure that maybe what she
thinks but I I think that what would
keep her from engaging in the
relationship would be different besides
thinking that you're kind of alone you
know because that's how people get
judged yeah I feel like you're fishing
for adults that I yeah anything like yep
I think it's I think she's competing
against someone that she can't win
against right okay right because you is
perfect
she's ideal and how can a real woman
with real flaws compete against that
that that is a very very very good
observation because what I think what I
didn't have in my mind which I needed
was something that my brain could
process as like a real honest-to-god
reason as to why this isn't going to
work out for me in the long term but I
think that's a very solid like logical
reason but like it resonates with me
emotionally as well sure but it's summer
I needed to something logical hmm I
thought that is the helping fantastic
I'm really happy to hear that I wasn't
expecting that but I'll take it
we'll take it I think the other thing to
think about is that I'm not so sure how
much space is in your heart for another
person if you ease there what do you
think that I think that makes and I like
I I don't really have much of a memory
of how that dynamic work back when I was
dating the person the year ago
so it sounds like something that would
make sense but it's simply you have a
waifu a year ago yes and what I didn't
say anything like a death sentence I
know like I mean like you're in a
relationship you're expected to be
honest about me like that's a hell of a
sit-down moment it's easier in - it's
one thing to have a sit-down in the
phone moment and tell someone that
you've you know you've been having an
affair and then they're the second woman
and it's an entirely different level of
sit-down moment when the person that
you're cheating on is non-existent yeah
it's not the whole cell yeah it's kind
of the essence of an emotional affair
without a physical affair you know it's
kind of interesting but yeah I mean I
think I have all kinds of other quite so
happy a wife um um I tend to surround
myself with people who I I think quite
nice and so even if they don't really
understand what the hell's going on
they're not judgmental or I have friends
who are insult like the the sphere of
people who like are in the anime
community and understand everything so
it's not weird to them mm-hmm is Weibo
offensive Weibo isn't actually a wife
it's like this there's Wiebe and there's
weeaboo weeaboo is kinda like the
long-winded a little out of date version
weeb is usually the short one so what is
a weap a we would just be someone who
really really likes anime and like the
stereotype would be like unwashed smelly
bad dress you know bad social skills are
you a we in spirits yes been physicality
not I walk out I work out
and dress myself nicely and bathe with
the best of them but mentally I feel
like I'm a day waiver good for you man
I applaud that that makes me happy and
optimistic for you and buts so it sounds
like you've you kind of surrounded by
yourself
by leaps yeah I have a good number of
weep friends yeah
okay and what are you up to nowadays are
you still in you near yeah I'm just
finishing up uni now I've like 'man I by
April 30th I should have everything
submitted thank God for quarantine
because holy hell our project was going
downhill we just be not saved by the
pandemic if anything interesting and yes
what are you what are you gonna do after
uni
I'm going to change careers because if
there's one if you means good at
anything it's it's telling you what you
don't like and I do not like the course
I took so I'm planning on bomb I'm
planning but I've already made a bunch
of work towards having a career in
teaching English abroad
okay so I've already gone up yeah that's
one one on my list also Mongolia because
no-one's been to Mongolia I just want to
go and like check in on them see what's
up
so it's just kind of all I don't know no
one talks about Mongolia but it's huge
yeah I've never met anyone from Mongolia
but it's like three times the size of
this country I don't get it but uh yeah
I'm going to tell you at some point it's
okay I mean I guess we could have seen
the teaching English abroad thing coming
right oh yeah absolutely
immediately this is like the
stereotypical career choice for people
so it sounds like you haven't dealt with
a whole lot of bullying around this kind
of thing Oh around this kind of thing no
I wouldn't think so no surprising but
you have to be bullied for other things
uh I mean yeah so I grew up didn't I
everyone what was
what was your what was your childhood
like it was there very emotionally
repressed
like growing up through school I had
very long hideous looking hair and you
can still see it a bit now but like feel
especially back then acne was a huge
problem for me hmm so I was a sort of
kid that it was just kinda like your
eyes with water just looking at me it
was like it was not a good luck so that
doesn't sound very funny I yeah um I
think yeah but like I think if I saw
myself now I wouldn't want to look at
myself I think I I it's quite
light-hearted now because I know that
I'm in a good place now and like that
seems so far away like I've changed so
much as a human being from that it's
difficult to just relate to myself
having change so I think the biggest the
biggest changing point for my life was
when my friends introduced me to
competitive gaming because it was but it
was the first time I ever tried anything
basically and it was the first time I
was ever I was like self reflective and
that process of looking at yourself in
improving yourself it was like I woke up
for the first time like coming out the
matrix hmm
it was like I was just stumbling through
life before that and suddenly I felt
like a human and the weight matrix comes
before getting a waifu yeah where did
you get where did you get introduced
into competitive gaming so we started
off with like we didn't take it too
seriously but we started off with like
66 tf2 and then we transitioned into
super smash bros melee hmm which is more
like a 1v1 fighter and I played that for
a good amount of years and then that's
what introduced me big time to like
making content on the Internet
I had like a like a small like like
around 500
subscribers like following of like
making smash videos cook because of how
the because of the how the community is
and how small it is like even though I
only have 500 subscribers it would be
the car thing where like I could go to a
tournament and I would be like
recognized which was internet it's uh it
where is so weird
everything is it's like a wake-up call I
don't like Fame
I think famous for some people not for
me although I don't like the idea of
being recognized much yeah it was I
still remember the first time someone
recognized me on the street yeah so this
is like recent so I just started
streaming a few months ago but then
someone like literally I was walking
down the street to a coffee shop and
someone looked at me and pointed at me
and said you're dr. K no [ __ ] just
stood there and I was like yes and then
I didn't know what I was supposed to say
or do because I didn't know who they
were
it's like normally it's like hey how are
you and then you say fine you just say
how are you and that's like and you're
like some guy on the street I don't know
it was weird
yeah but yeah so hmm
Toby yeah dude I I don't think I mean I
find myself having other questions right
like so yeah you know like I'm really
curious because I mean for people who
think that they're in relationships I
understand that there's like a sexual
component to that I I'm not getting that
from you is that the case I mean I died
jack off like any other way there's
nothing with some people are like
monogamous in that sense where they will
only do that kind of thing for that one
character that's not how I roll
it's not a lie okay so so you're an
equal-opportunity employer for all like
that yeah perhaps the worst way I've
ever heard that but yeah we can we can
do that yeah so I mean and but like dude
I don't know what to say like a you know
it sounds to me like this was a pretty
it sounds [ __ ] weird but it's like it
makes sense to me you know like I think
yeah the story you told about sort of
being in a dark point in your life and
and watching something that resonates
with you like that's how human beings
work yeah like so so we have stories and
we resonate with stories and we find
inspiration from characters and I think
something about the way that you were
and we haven't really dog too much into
this but I wonder whether you had other
risk factors or vulnerabilities for
really like anthropomorphize alike this
feeling I think the really really
bizarre thing is that you know one of
the questions that I get get very often
from people from our community is how do
I learn to forgive myself or love myself
and apparently and the answer is get a
wife food you know so I think it's it's
quite remarkable I mean the one thing
that I think really sets you apart Toby
from most of the people that I've met is
not actually the fact that you have a
wife around it's [ __ ] bizarre but is
the fact that you actually sound like
you love yourself and that you're
confident in who you are despite having
a wife ooh so that may sound like super
weird because the idea is that you know
people lack I think think it sort of
makes sense that loneliness and a lack
of confidence leads people to create
waifu's are engaged with waifu's but I
think even and you know it sounds
strange to me that like you know you
think that you need to move past this
and that was like you had that in your
head from the get-go
yeah and I get that you're scared and
because you are scared so I think you
know you're like an adult version of a
child who has like a safety blanket and
this is what object relations is a lot
of Alex of the theory of object
relations which is a subset of something
called psychoanalysis basically talks
about how adults have safety blankets -
like we all have all kinds of things and
in some case you know there's there
books that have been written about
object relations and God and so like God
is a safety blanket of sorts and you
know I think that you should I mean if I
tell you that I think it's time to let
her go how do you respond to that of
yeah so and then I would say to that
fear you know
I think she's always gonna be with you
and in a sense and this is very anime
right so she's like changed you as a
person and even though she has to die at
the end of the arc or disappear it
doesn't you live on and she lives on in
here yeah and then the other day where
the character appears in the clouds
absolutely so that's what that's where
she's got to go man she's got to appear
in the clouds and and you've got to make
space for a like you know a
flesh-and-blood person because there's a
part of you that's hungry for that right
and and I find myself saying thankfully
which is a little bit judgmental but
thankfully you recognize that you can't
have a real relationship with her which
I'm you know I'm still open-minded and
if someone were to say I am capable of
having a real relationship with Luther
I'd I'd be happy to explore that with
them but I just don't understand that
and so far you haven't really given me
anything to suggest that that's truly
possible I think you can have a
relationship but it's not a two sided
relationship you can have a relationship
in the way that you can have with God in
which it's like pretty one-sided which
in a sense I don't even really believe
but that's a different issue yeah yeah
sometimes I feel like my relationship
with God is two-sided anyway but yeah I
mean what do you think about that I I
like that as a conclusion I I think it's
it's almost like it satisfies all areas
where it it's it's able to to take the
almost like the the present of the
emotion is in a space and time gift wrap
thing and able to come home car pence
that's not what able to put it somewhere
else like just in like my memory I'd be
like that was a thing but the but the
the effect and the emotion not the
emotion the effect
it's had on me sticks with me it's not
like I don't lose the progress I've made
absolutely and and I even would disagree
with a little bit about your your
conception of like walling it off Ronnie
in your memory I think you'll you'll be
you'll find and this has been my
experience of love in a romantic and
also with like other human beings in a
different way relationship that that
love is gonna be way more present than
you realize right because I still think
that she's more of you than you realize
like she's not quite as act like she's
not external to begin with in my mind
but in your mind she's external in some
way but I think she's more internal than
you're giving her credit for and so I
think if you end up in a loving
relationship with someone you'll be
surprised by how present she is and then
the last very practical thing is I think
psychologically and also like from a
weirdness standpoint you've got to make
space in your life for someone else
yeah and and it's kind of like it's not
fair to that person for her to compete
with you because that person is gonna
have bad days and you ease now yeah
although I hear that some some people's
wife who's throw temper tantrums and
things like that
I've never heard of that before in my
life yes this is my first swim into
these waters but when I say I've heard
I've I've worked with people who have
told me that before right but for them
it seems to be like a big important part
of them to be able to win over their
wife who after they're mad at this moves
them anyway so it's weird but thoughts
or questions before we kind of wrap up
uh no I don't think so okay I'm pretty
good can you just help me understand a
little bit about like what felt relevant
to you or what was helpful from today
okay
I think really defining how as a
relationship it works the like the
discussing of one side of nature of it
really help the exploring how it related
or exploring how much Yui and myself are
intertwined helped a lot and the and I
think that specifically the sort of I
don't know how I would describe it but
the like the the anime head in the
clouds moment specifically as well yeah
so would you like to yeah so I thanks
for sharing that like can I share with
you kind of my summary of what I learned
today and and you know maybe like direct
so I mean first of all I think that you
know you did an awesome job of
explaining like what a waifu is right so
yeah the most important thing I think is
that it's a feeling of love and the
interesting thing is that so we people
can say that waifu's are real or fake or
whatever relationship not relationship
but one of the things that I've come to
appreciate is that feelings are real
and it doesn't matter whether feelings
come from fake places feelings
themselves are real and have to be
addressed like when I'm working with
someone with anxiety and even though
everyone doesn't actually hate them they
feel hated by other people because
that's what happens when you're anxious
yeah and it doesn't do any good to tell
them oh by the way no one actually hates
you that doesn't do anything to the
feeling the feeling is real and needs to
be dealt with like it needs to be
considered and so you sort of have you
had convinced me that why foods are
quote unquote real and not weird from
the second that use your defining point
and you did this right at the get-go is
that it's a feeling of romantic log
towards something that doesn't exist and
so feelings towards things that don't
exist happen all the time right and and
now if I don't exist I mean that you can
define or prove like for example God so
a lot of people have faith in God and
there's no real proof of God some people
think there's proof I'm not convinced of
that and and but so at the end of the
day
it's a feeling and I think that you know
you you watched Kay on first when you
were like 15 or 16 years old and it was
kind of surface level but as you started
to struggle in life you kind of went
towards you know you something about you
ease story resonated with you you saw
yourself in her she was kind of like I
still think that you kind of conceived
of her as a perfect version of you and
that kind of comes down to this idea of
like being capable of love and loving
other people and it sounds like she was
able to do that in the anime maybe you
also want to make music and then you
know I think that like what's happened
is that that helped you when you were
feeling alone and loathing yourself
because you kind of talked about having
that self-loathing or that critical
voice whereas like Yui sort of gave you
a sense of love and acceptance and
that's when you learn how to love
yourself which is a very important thing
to learn how to do and now that you've
sort of learned that and things are kind
of status quo you're growing and you're
changing and you're dating women and
being unfaithful towards Yui and and and
now you're kind of noticing that like
there's something left
that's like unsatisfied right that at
the end of the day you still have a
hunger for you know for something that
can love you back and you can love
yourself but like that's different from
being loved by someone and I think what
you're starting to feel more and more is
that like even though you feel good
about yourself and you love yourself you
that's not the same as someone loving
you and if you really want that I think
you've got a sort of not so much like
you know as Yui like goes into the
clouds she doesn't disappear right she
just becomes less present and manifest
in your physical world so like the Shelf
of things that you have I think needs to
calm down at some point right not like I
mean I think it's fine to have one
picture but like think about it in the
way that you know you're grieving the
loss of a relationship right is that
person doesn't leave your life entirely
but they're also like you know they get
kind of packaged and set aside and
I want you to kind of think about it
almost like you know if I have a wife
who passes away and and thank God
hopefully that's not gonna happen
anytime soon but you know like and I
start dating someone new like it's fine
like it's completely reasonable for me
to have an entire book shelf filled with
pictures of my wife and at the same time
if I try to let someone else and like I
see this practically with patients that
I work with is like they can't compete
against a dead person
yeah right it's just not like because
everything that I remember about my
deceased wife or everything that my
patients remember on their deceased wife
is idealized it's just like you he is
and it doesn't mean that the feelings
that I have for that person or false
it's just not fair to the person that
you want to let into your life and I
think that's really the direction that
you need to go in terms of you know
grieve that this part of your life is
over but also that there's like a second
arc so now we're like in Toby Ark -
which is when she get that when he gets
a real girlfriend yeah oh well knock
that will be yeah you got you got a
report back at some point right and let
us know that's going and and and you I
mean it's it's great that you do kind of
take care of yourself and I think you're
I think you're ready to start letting
her go although I get that you're scared
because that's normal so the part of you
that's scared is like the part of you
that's like a freshman and not someone
who's graduating and I mean you're
[ __ ] you're gonna go to Japan and
teach English and you're probably gonna
want to date an asian chick and so like
you know you gotta you got to make space
for that in your life yeah yeah I think
but that entire thing was like pretty
much fun it's like something for me this
is like save and remember on occasions
like yeah yeah so so good luck to you
man thank you very much yeah you feel
like meditating today I I've tried
because I've had the therapy before and
we tried meditating but my brain doesn't
like to stop so
it's very difficult to stall I feel like
I'd never get anywhere okay well I try
you willing to give it a shot I'll be
willing to give it a shot
okay so we won't expect much from you
okay and so unfortunately for the people
at home I don't know how much this is
gonna apply to y'all because we're gonna
try to do a different sort of meditation
so I want you to sit up straight yep and
thank you for sharing your concerns by
the way so we're gonna try to do
something different I'm not going to
teach you a traditional meditation close
your eyes and try to find the feeling
that of love that you have for youi can
you find it yep where is it about here
okay
what does it feel like it feels often
after today it's halfway between warm
and comforting and the little cold and
clinical and sort of taken apart a
little bit okay and how so interesting
it's not an answer I was expecting so I
gotta just think about that for a second
so let's just start by noticing those
two so is the cold and clinical coming
from your chester is it coming from
somewhere else it's like the cold and
clinical is here and the warmth like
here just next to it okay so good so in
a sense I want you to sit with that and
I want to know do you feel like you've
lost something by feeling the cold and
clinical no but didn't it all used to be
warm and fuzzy yeah
how have you not lost something by
gaining something called in clinical
because this is still the thumbs are a
different light beautifully put
and so
I want you to recognize try to find the
fear of letting you ego okay where is
that okay okay and what does that feel
like it feels a little bit empty and a
little bit like this is gonna sound
really weird it feels like a chain like
a metal chain just being like dragged
across a paving
sure beautifully quite right so notice
that thing there's there's heaviness to
it there's weight to it there's noise to
it there's a sense of holding you down
or weighing you down holding you back
like that's what I when I hear you use
that language that's what pops into my
mind what does that resonate with you
yeah I think so and and so that's kind
of a strange imagery because like now I
want you to think a little bit about all
of the places that Yui is in your room
and in your life in a physical way and I
want you to think about like let's start
with the bookshelf what would it feel
like to take some of those things and
pack them away in a shoebox that would
feel very third over sad in what way
that would feel like I'm losing a pollen
with okay so what are you feeling now
like my entire body is very slightly
lifting upwards like I'm full of helium
or something okay like everything's gone
to my head a little bit okay
so you feel like you would lose a part
of yourself yeah not a part of her
it feels very personal yeah so what
would you be losing by doing that what
part of yourself would you give up I
think I don't know exactly what I mean
by this but the word memories comes to
mind yeah I think that's a good answer
let me just think about how to explain
that I think that you're giving up
you're giving up that which was very
important to you before right that's why
it's a memory you're giving up in the
sense of comfort that you need and then
but you're not the same person anymore
so at this point you're spot on that
you're giving up a memory because it's
it's over the past now which is exactly
why you must put it away and the other
thing that I want you to try to
appreciate for a moment is like where
are all of these things so now I want
you to take a step back a little bit and
now really observe instead of sit in the
feelings like you have been and where
are all of these feelings coming from
the memories feelings okay maybe you're
asking specifically do you mean the
memories everything that we've talked
about every question that I've asked you
all the answers that you've given me
where do those answers come from from
OPA ok I'm not so sure I agree with that
right because some information and data
is coming from here so I agree that the
answer the words out of your mouth are
maybe coming from here but you're
getting data from here yeah yeah but now
let me ask you this are you getting any
data from the outside
no right so now I want you to take some
comfort in that because you can put the
pictures away but nothing is coming from
the pictures like nothing is coming from
the pictures to watch all of the
pictures trigger something in here do
you see that but like it's all coming
from here and so you can take every
image of Yui out of your house stop
freaking out prospective girlfriends and
you don't actually have to let go of any
of that because it's all in here anyway
like this is where all your feelings and
sensations and stuff comes from this is
where the sadness and the grief and the
coldness and the clinical Mis and the
warmth and the love and also the comfort
of of meeting those feelings in that
representation it all comes from here
and you can let it go I think it
requires courage and to put things very
very concretely and to freak you out
Toby I rarely do this but I'm gonna ask
you to try to put some of those things
away okay
right between now and tomorrow and if
you can't do it you can't do it no big
deal I did I did make a quick disclaimer
to say that I'm still at university I'm
not at home you know many of the things
I own on here so I can't do something I
can't do some things but some things
were required me breaking the law if I
were to put them all no I mean I'm not
saying you should break the law but but
you so you're basically giving me an
excuse for avoiding the task Sophia yeah
I could do what I can around here but
yeah but I'm not asking you to put
everything away the the real thing the
real reason that I want you to put it
away is not to put it away but to take a
snapshot of who you are now and the
thought of putting things away and see
how you feel
then actually go through the act of
packing something away and then notice
how you feel afterward do you feel like
you've lost something because the issue
here is that right now you is a hundred
percent a part of your life so if we
make her ninety percent a part of your
life how devastating is that yeah and
what I think you'll discover is that
something about that chain dragging
across pavement is not going to be
exactly what you think it is it's gonna
be painful in some ways that you may not
have realize it and I think it's gonna
be easier in other ways that you don't
realize and it is kind of interesting
because you use this imagery of
shackling and I think that's exactly
what you is doing for you now she helped
you up and now she's kind of holding you
back and I get the sense that you feel
that so now it's time to let her go
which can be scary good luck to you man
thank you very much and if you can think
of anyone any questions about any of
that stuff alright so that getting you
[ __ ] colors any questions about any of
that stuff no okay yeah and if you've
got a real flaming Weibo who's got a
relationship and wants to come on stream
cuz you're like you're like halfway past
all this [ __ ] already man it's
disappointing we were look I hope hope
doesn't feel jebaited yet again yeah
they were debated man you you bathe and
you workout and you're making a career
change and you take care of yourself and
you think you've dated oh come on atha
you've dated a couple of women despite
having to we want like a real weebo man
like a real wife ooh like some guy who
has [ __ ] plastered up yet like a Bowser
poster on your wall like that should be
someone else come on man well I do have
a theory of that we get to see Yui
before we go yeah sure it's uh it's one
that my my friends drew for me for
Christmas and it's Yuri holding a stomp
which is the Pokemon
oh wow okay can you yeah there we go
okay well that's uh yeah also I'm cool
very much proud of my balance at six the
super mario 64 thousand poster [ __ ]
love that it's a great game Mario
oh my favourite matter easily far again
alright man thanks a lot dude take care
of good luck okay you say matter can't
let her go buddy
I'll try bye bye bye alright so let's do
okay we've got so many people love Toby
Ethan POG okay so let's do you guys want
to do a couple questions okay let's do a
couple of questions
[Music]
thanks for persevering through all of
the boom earnest boy ready roll hello
I am alone in discord so much loneliness
forever alone maybe it's time to dig
myself up a wife of do we boat girls
have husband dues wait hey hey what's up
man so before I really ask the question
I wanted to talk about something that
happened a year ago okay so in March
2019 we had a big house fire so I was
home alone in my room which
I'm there right now and the fire alarm
went off and I was on fire and I had to
get the [ __ ] out and so scary yeah so
that I was really stressed on that day I
was was in the middle of my exam week so
all sorts of stuff going on but what's
weird is the week after that after I
finished the exams
I felt really free like I didn't have to
go home because I didn't have a home
right well we stayed somewhere but it
wasn't home and so when I was out I
didn't feel like I had to get back home
right so I felt free so I thought about
that a lot and I felt like it had to do
with my fear of rejection like when I'm
out I feel like I'm getting or I feel
like I'm afraid of getting rejected and
so when I'm home I'm safe from that so
my question would be how do I deal with
that or how do I yeah how do I feel less
attached to home yeah I'm confused
because what what your what it sounds
like what you're giving me is an answer
not a question yeah so well of course
another question could be how do I deal
with fear of rejection no but I mean I I
understand that you can rephrase the
question and you're turning it into a
question I I think what the weird thing
here is I think you already have an
answer right so like you've already
analyzed some so this is great I'm not
trying to shoot you down but the
interesting thing is that most people
come to me like what what it sounds like
what you've had is a realization what
we're really looking for me to do is
confirm your realization that home is a
place that allows you to escape from
your fear of rejection it's a protective
place and and what you discovered when
your house burned down
is that someone taking away your shelter
like actually things were not as scary
as you thought they were in the outside
world and you felt free and good
right like what I'm hearing from you is
almost like what I like so I you know I
have young kids so sometimes a young
child doesn't want to do something
they're terrified like let's say like I
want to put one of them in the bathtub
and they're scared of the water and it's
almost like you have to force them into
the bathtub and once you force them into
the bathtub they're like hey this is
actually a lot of fun it's not what I
thought it was and so what I'm hearing
from you is that you had you were afraid
of rejection so you had an experience of
freedom after after your house burned
down which is strange
and then as you reflected on it and
looked into it you realized oh like I
was using home is a shield against like
fear of rejection and you started to
understand that for yourself which is
wonderful and then you also realize like
oh actually like being coming out from
behind the shield actually feels freeing
and liberating yeah so that the problem
I guess is that a week later when we go
to rental home and you know we start
getting settled in there you move all
your stuff that's still intact and then
it just came back
I still work and yeah of course I still
have that and now of course now I'm
really stuck at home yeah so so I mean I
think that the issue is that like what
you've got to do is just so recognize
that so now that you've got a shelter
again it can be scary even though you've
been in the bathtub once and you enjoyed
it the first time it can be hard for
someone to overcome their fear after one
experience that's positive but the short
answer is and I recognize this is you
know kovat so you can't do this it's
like I think you already know that you
can you need to leave the home or that's
what I'm hearing from you yeah and so
you know that you know there's a part of
you that's not gonna want to leave and
there's a part of you that recognizes
that that's exactly what you need
because you came here and you told me
this is what I need to do this is what
home meet means to me how do I deal with
my fear of rejection and so you could
say that okay yeah you have to go back
and process and figure out why you're
afraid of being rejected but I think in
your case you have a unique advantage in
the sense that you've been forced to
overcome your fear of rejection and you
found that it's actually not very
painful
so I'd say just leave the house when
it's time to and notice that you have
the fear of rejection and notice that
there's a part of you that can tell that
can assure you that that fear of
rejection is not correct that you've
actually been out of the house before
and it turns out to be freeing and
liberating and then you're gonna have a
little war in your mind because a part
of you is gonna say I want safety and
another part of you is gonna say I want
liberation and then it's your choice
which part of your mind you listen to
mm-hmm right and like this is all kind
of a mood question because you're in
covent like I'm sorry if I don't have a
more satisfying answer but you're one of
the rare people that like starts their
question with an answer that's the
answer so I mean it's it's different
it's it's not just telling people like
oh just leave your house like the
difference between telling someone to
leave their house and telling you to
leave your house is that you've left
your house before so there's a part of
you there's some part of you that you
can rely on to help you get out of your
house yeah so in a sense it has helped
and I've like started going out more
with friends but then the next level
kind of above that is asking a girl out
right and that's still so terrifying to
me and and yeah I don't know I
understand why you'd start with that one
right so I guess that's a good point
like if you're able to go out with
friends and you ask me like how do I
leave the house then yeah and then it
you know I mean like if you're if your
thing is like I'm terrified of being
rejected by a girl then you know that's
different but I mean I I think I think
we've got and so we've got a few minutes
left and unfortunately I don't know let
me see if we have we have another
question because I kind of want to say
like that's the question we should
answer but there's another part of me
that's like if there are other people
waiting I should give them a chance too
right yeah
and of course I already know that's it
the answer is just ask right so no no
but see you haven't asked yet so it's
not just asked for you you see the
difference one is that like you've left
the home so you have an experience of a
thing right so you can rely on that
experience to help you overcome your
fear but if you've never had an
experience of the thing you can't just
tell someone to just do it do you
understand the difference there right
yeah
and just do it is usually the wrong
answer you are one of the rare people
for whom it's the right answer because
you already learned this okay right like
if you if you haven't if you are afraid
of asking out a girl get yourself a wife
ooh Larkin some salt love and then go
and ask out a girl because then you'll
have been in a relationship before I
know you're kind of moving now but yeah
me me let me just let me check in with
Moses and see if we have another
question and and then and then if not
then we'll okay hold on let me just let
me just hold on a second don't don't
leave yet okay hey do we have another
question or there's two more how may do
you want let's do yeah yeah I guess
let's let's do one more okay so yeah we
have a couple of questions so I'm gonna
I'm gonna have to ask you know let them
do that thing okay all right what's up
hey good how are you fine thanks
so my question would be rather personal
and is regarding the feeling of God you
were talking about and it's being
feeling sometimes like two sided
relationship where you give and you get
something out of it could you elaborate
a little more on this experience like so
what is my experience of a two sided
relationship with God so in the stream
you in the short section I don't know
about what time frame it was yeah yeah
but you talked about some or maybe I did
misunderstand you there no no I was
clarifying what your question was so I
made a statement about having sometimes
have a bizarre two sided relationship
with God right where I give and I
receive yeah yeah and so your question
is can i elaborate on that yes like how
does yeah how does it work out this
relationship that became one-sided turn
into two sided relationship I guess oh
yeah so I think there there are two
aspects to it the first is that
sometimes when I know I'm supposed to do
something so the first let's just take a
step back so first thing is like what's
the deal with God so I tend to be
skeptical by nature and I think that
like people I have yet to read a logical
or scientific a logical proof or a
scientific piece of evidence that
supports that convinces me that God
exists you with me so far
yep so I understand that that people
debate that kind of thing and in my own
experiences with like theism versus
non-theism which I think Hinduism like I
like Hinduism because Hinduism
a religion that is simultaneously
polytheistic monotheistic and atheistic
so their conception of God just fits way
better with me because they don't think
that there's a difference between
monotheism and atheism which I know
sounds different because we define the
words differently if they define God in
a way that sort of you can apply
monotheism and atheism to it in the same
way and the simplest analogy I can give
is you can say that h2o is a liquid a
solid or a gas and of course that makes
sense because we understand but like if
I were to tell you that ice and water
like ice and water are different but
they're both h2o right that sort of
makes sense like in one perspective
these two things are different but from
another perspective they're the same and
so Western religion or Western
philosophy tends to look at a theism and
monotheism is contradictory whereas
Eastern philosophy does not it's like
it's all h2o oh ok anyway so your
question is like what's the deal with my
two-way relationship with God so there
are two things the first is that I
started to through meditation discover
sources of knowledge that I do not think
were from me so we have this conception
that all of the knowledge that we get or
all of the understanding that we get
comes from us so if I read a math
textbook and there's information in the
math textbook and that the understanding
comes from me but as I started to
understand who I was I started to
recognize that I'm knowing things that
is not possible for a human to know like
I just saw I started to belong possible
in what sense so I'll just give you an
example so one time I had someone come
into my office and say to me I've heard
that you're the guy that like people
should talk to so she sat down in my
office and then she said so tell me tell
like give like you're the guy that fixes
people's lives right so she sat down in
my office and she said so fix mine
and then I was like I you know my first
instinct was like I don't know anything
about this person and then I just like
stop for a second I meditated and I
started talking and then 30 minutes
later she's crying in my office and
saying I've talked to half a dozen
therapists and like none of them have
ever been as helpful as this is and then
20 minutes later she walked out of my
office and I have never seen her again
now from a scientific perspective you
could say that my training in human
psychology allows me to talk to another
human being and read signals from them
and essentially do like cold reading
which is what psychics do and
essentially like train myself to be able
to do that you could say that that is a
skill that human beings can acquire that
a mastery in psychology and cold reading
allows someone to sit across from
another human being and like understand
them in a way that's like helpful and
transformative for that person does that
make sense you know cold reading is no
it didn't
it's basically attempting but that
psychics use okay right so but then like
the more I stop and think about a
mission I don't think I don't think I'm
that good at psychology and so they're
like when I have experiences like that
it makes me like really scratch my head
and say am I just that badass and I'm
pretty sure I'm not because like I sort
of know what I'm capable of and I know
that I'm not capable of that like if you
take a hundred people and you stick them
in front of me and you say like oh like
Anna like like I can't do that's not
possible right that's just not possible
like I don't believe that that's
possible so then if I'm not capable of
doing that but that clearly happened and
like where is that coming from
so that's oh so so like I don't know
what that thing is
but I have trouble accepting that that
was me and I have trouble accepting that
that didn't happen so I accept that that
happened and I'm pretty sure it wasn't
me because I'm pretty sure I know what
I'm capable of and so that's one it's an
anecdote absolutely right so like that
gets me questioning though I'm not
saying it's evidence I'm just saying
like this is [ __ ]
using for me and then you guys are
asking about my personal experiences
which I'm not claiming to have knowledge
of this kind of stuff that's just like
you're asking for my subjective
experience and this is what I'm sharing
with you I'm not saying I'm right you
guys say I'm [ __ ] dumb or I'm [ __ ]
amazing or I hallucinate it it I will
accept all those things I've thought
about that stuff it still kind of is in
my mind as possibilities and the other
thing that happens I know this is gonna
sound really weird but sometimes I do
things that I know I'm not supposed to
do and I feel like I just get
bitch-slapped by god it's it's hard to
describe but like sometimes when I lose
patience with my kids like I get hurt in
some way it's just really strange like
weird things will happen around me and
like there's a part of me that says oh
this is just your mind reading into
cognitive bias around like and there's
like definitely like an availability
bias like I get mad at my kid like a
dozen times but the only times that I
remember are the ones that something
happens to me so I'm aware of that
cognitive bias and I kind of look out
for it I'm not saying that this is
actually the case like I think that
scientifically if someone came to my
office and said I think this is
happening I would say them you know
there's a decent chance this is
availability bias so you're
misremembering certain things but like
just the simplest thing that I can tell
you is like I forgot even what it was I
was outside and I got mad at my kid in a
way that I knew I shouldn't have and
like something like a bug flew into my
eye within the next few seconds and it
was just weird it was just like really
really weird and that's happened to me a
few times and so like is that
availability but like literally like a
bug flew into my eye and like hurt the
[ __ ] out of my eye I was like what the
[ __ ] it's just strange like I don't is
it biased like absolutely like it should
be biased right this is just me
misremembering because I get mad at my
kid every day it's just me
misremembering but then there's a part
of myself there's like a part of me that
feels like it's not misremembering it's
like actually like maybe you should pay
attention to this and so I don't know
what's real and what isn't but like it
makes me question
and okay yeah make sense and then kind
of paying attention more recognizing
such yeah experiences feelings yeah so I
really don't know what the deal is
they're like is it just cognitive bias
so now I pay attention right I pay
attention to every time I get mad at my
kid and I like in my mind I sort of have
like a mental tally and and like I try
to keep track like I actually study it
like I collect data and so far I haven't
met any conclusions sorry to say like so
cuz it caught a cognitive bias like
absolutely could be like that sounds as
sure as hell sounds like cognitive bias
and the availability bias right like I'm
misremembering things but it feels
different and one thing that I've come
to appreciate is that just because
something doesn't make sense in my head
doesn't mean it's correct it's incorrect
and in fact humanity's biggest
advancements have come from things that
don't make sense to people I don't know
if that like so for example when
Einstein discovered relativity he
started questioning the fixed nature of
time which is so non-intuitive so I've
come to appreciate that like grit like
if I want to really learn things its
questioning things that I hold to be
absolutely true and so anytime I get
data that contradicts something that I
hold to be absolutely true like that
there isn't a God then I stop and pause
and I really try to study it
the Einstein part was a bit too complex
to grasp from your mind
so the point behind the Einstein part is
that Einstein questioned some things
that everyone knew to be true oh yeah
right
so like when I have a belief that for
example like I don't believe that God
bitchslaps me when I mean to my kid like
that just doesn't there is not good
evidence in the world that God responds
to evil in a direct way so even if we
think something is wrong we could be
ourselves wrong about being absolutely
so that's what I've come to realize and
so that's made Neri question and like
put a question mark into like what's the
deal with God because evil happens all
over the place so it just doesn't make
sense to me that they're like people
committing genocide and God has the time
or inclination to send up like a fly
into my eye when I mean to my kid look
that just doesn't make any logical sense
right yeah
no but but at the same time like flies
keep on winding up in my eye so like
what the [ __ ] is up with that and that's
where I am which is like it's just too
either it's like too coincidental
because flies keep on winding up in my
eye and like like it's just weird so I
haven't figured it out but I'm just I'm
looking into it and trying to figure it
out like an experiment it's running yeah
absolutely and if you have any thoughts
about how this [ __ ] works by all means
or twitch chat does like I'm trying to
figure it out yeah I think him at that
point - at the moment can say I figured
anything out on that domain yeah so
thank you for your question yeah thanks
a lot man I'm sorry if I was like not
you know unfortunately I don't have
enlightened answers for everything that
you guys ask but I'm happy to ask them
answer them I mean it's kind of the
discussion part about it which thinks it
makes me think getting there yeah so one
thing that I would leave for you
like don't let logic outweigh experience
so this is something I feel really
confident maybe this is what I should
have said all along is that I have come
to appreciate that the conclusions of a
logical mind are not the only source of
information and sometimes are actually
completely useless like it like the case
with anxiety like if you've got anxiety
it doesn't matter like if you take
someone with OCD who has a part of their
brain that tells them unless you turn
off and on the light seven times a
meteor is gonna hit your parents it
doesn't matter how illogical the thought
is like there there are forces within
you that act upon you or potentially in
the outside world that don't adhere to
logic and the people influence kind of
then start acting like it's real anyway
yeah so like I think that's just
experience is real to them absolutely so
I think that this is where like a lot of
people say oh this is not logical
therefore I should not believe it but I
think that there are all kinds of things
that you can believe that exists outside
of logic and their sources of
information that come outside of logic
and so so if you have an experience of
something don't just discard it because
it's illogical just that by meditation
and yoga comes in for me absolutely
because meditation is where I learned
truths that were not founded in logic
and right off through experience but
goes yeah so meditation is about
cultivating experience right so like
like I'll just give you one last example
then we have to transition I think as
we've got Ethan but so like some people
have asked me about past lives so the
way that I understand past lives is like
you have memories of your past right
yeah okay so like what what would you do
one day if you woke up and in the same
way like you remember what you had for
lunch yesterday
um no okay so you can take any map like
your memories are like normal right like
they're just a normal part of you like
you remember this you remember this
movie you remember this you remember
this so imagine you wake up one day and
you have memories of a life that isn't
yours like how do you understand that
like what is that phenomenon like does
that mean that past lives are real like
I don't know but it's [ __ ] weird it's
it's weird to wake up one day and have
memories of a life that does not exist
but it's not imagination it feels like a
memory it's not like something you make
up it's just you remember it it has the
same casualness of memory and so my
point is that like if you have an
experience like that which sometimes I I
work with people who have experiences
like that then I don't think you should
just discard it because it's not logical
because clear like that's coming from
somewhere so try to figure out like
what's the deal with that like is there
some system of logic that does explain
it investigate it and don't discard it
just because it's not logical okay make
sense kind of like an anxious person
might get anxious because there really
is fret to the person yes so for example
one patient that I worked with had
anxiety for 17 years and had worked with
multiple psychiatrists and therapists
and we've been able to help her a lot
and the way that we helped her was by
starting with the idea that her anxiety
is real and not false that in and of
itself has helped her immensely because
she was aware of things that people told
her as a child were not true that
actually were and so like that became
anxiety because like but her fears were
really real because she understood what
was going on and they just didn't
explain it to her and that's become her
anxiety disorder so the interesting
thing is that the more that we embrace
and explore her illogical anxiety the
more she realizes oh actually I knew
this all along and the better than our
anxiety is just like going away it's
really strange like I don't know if that
makes sense but it it's a strange yeah
of course kind kind of like the feeling
was had the purpose with
every isn't behind it absolutely
absolutely so so the takeaway for all of
you guys is that don't just trust logic
because logic is flawed or incomplete
and there are other sources of
information and what I try to do is just
explore each and every one of those
right and try to figure out what your
own answers are irrespective of whether
they're logical or not all right thank
you all right take care
Enza see